Synapse 1.65 (#1404)
matrix-org/matrix.org: gatsby/content/blog/2022/08/2022-08-17-synapse-1.65.mdx

---
date: '2022-08-17'
title: Synapse 1.65 released
categories:
- Releases
author: Brendan Abolivier
---

Hey everyone! We've just released [Synapse
1.65](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v1.65.0)! Let's have a
peek at what's inside.

## Private read receipts

A feature that the more privacy-focused users of Matrix have been missing was
the ability to hide read receipts from other users. Read receipts in rooms can
tell a user which messages another user has read in a room. However, they can

> also be unwelcomed indicator that a user is currently reading a certain room,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also be an unwelcome indicator that a user is currently reading a certain room,
```

works both for local and remote aliases. The second one,
[`create_room`](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/v1.65.0/synapse/module_api/__init__.py#L1479-L1528),
allows modules to create new rooms on behalf of an existing user.

The
[`update_room_membership`](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/v1.65.0/synapse/module_api/__init__.py#L925-L1017)
method has also been updated in this release of Synapse to allow modules to join
a room the server is not already in via federation. This can be done by using
the new `remote_room_hosts` argument, which takes a list of homeservers to try
to join via.

## Everything else

Synapse 1.65 implements the new experimental error codes documented by
[MSC3848](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3827). Once
stabilised, these error codes will allow clients to show more specific errors to
their users about why an event could not be sent.

This release of Synapse also stabilises the implementation of
[MSC3827](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3827), which
allows filtering public room searches on room types. This means it is now

> possible to search specifically for public spaces.

Reviewer: this seems like quite big news TBH! Not sure it deserves to be left as a footnote, I think this is potentially more interesting than the module APIs to most people, at least to me

Author: That's fair, though it was already mentioned in more details in [the 1.63 blog](https://matrix.org/blog/2022/07/20/synapse-1-63-released). I'll add a link to said post.

Author: (and I've bumped it to the top of "everything else")
